---
layout: post
title: Why I don't like writing code in exams
date: '2013-01-10T00:30:00+00:00'
---
As part of an upcoming exam I’ve got to write sections of code in the language
we were taught. We’ve had to do this kind of thing before, at school, and I’ve
been fine with it. This as a method to access ones programming ability just
seems to me to be so fundamentally flawed.

If you’ve ever written any kind of program you’ll know that it’s rare to get it
spot on first time - perhaps never on the first time. We’re taught this is
fine, even good. We’re taught how to test programs and rollback to prior
versions to fix errors - mistakes are a given and it’s our job to fix them.

This may be different if you were to only write in one language at any time but
for students, like me, you’re often learning more than one _new_ language and
it’s easy to mix up the different syntaxes. New languages are designed
similarly to older ones to make them easily picked up but because of this it
can get rather confusing.

These kind of problems though are easily sorted at a computer though, a
reminder is nearly always just a quick Google search away. In exams though you
don’t have a computer, it’s just you and your paper.

This brings in many different biases and creates a
rather inadequate assessment in my opinion.

First off, you don’t have access to the tools that are _always_ present when
you’re working in the real world - no auto-complete, no reference - basically
no help. This means that you have to write perfectly executable code, on paper
with no aids. Like taking a language writing exam with no dictionary.

That’s not the only problem, the lack of help I can live with but the inability
to check your solution’s correctness is just far too false. When you write a
solution you’re always running it, reading the exceptions and making
adjustments - it’s all part of the skill. I would even argue that the ability
to fix errors is of greater value than memorising syntax. It’s more than
knowledge, it’s a way of thinking about a problem where exceptions are like
clues to the mystery. It also transfers well between environments which only
makes it all the more valuable.

To be able to pass the programming questions with top marks you basically need
a photographic memory because it _must be executable_. This means that even if
you have all the ‘steps’ (even all the lines) included you can still loose
marks for the wrong kind of parentheses! In a French test for example you
should loose marks for wrong words as it makes it less understandable. Here
though, answers with mistakes that would be fixed by auto correction or easily
spotted after a trial run should still be able to claim full marks.

I personally think that the _only_ way to test programming ability is by
judging a completed project. There is nothing to be gained from blocking
internet access or preventing discussion - plagiarism is always obvious too.
In recruitment candidates can be asked to write code at the interview - how
often do you think this is done in a silent exam hall with pen and paper?
